AdvanceBERRY
============

AdvanceBERRY is a ready-to-use Raspberry Pi image that transforms your Pi into
a plug-and-play arcade gaming console for your TV.

Originally created as a Christmas gift for children (and their parents), it
is designed for users with little to no computer experience.

It works out of the box, no keyboard required, even at first boot. Gamepads
are automatically detected, including Bluetooth models.

It boots in just a few seconds and launches directly into a visually rich menu
featuring animated previews of available games. Gameplay visuals are enhanced
with scaling effects that are intelligently selected at runtime to ensure
smooth performance without any slowdown.


Installation
============

AdvanceBERRY supports Raspberry Pi 3 and 4. A Raspberry Pi 3 can handle all
classic games, though some newer ones may require frame skipping. A Raspberry
Pi 4 provides smoother performance for nearly all included games.

To install AdvanceBERRY, you’ll need a 32 GB microSD card and the Raspberry Pi
Imager.

Download the Imager here:

    https://www.raspberrypi.com/software/

Open Raspberry Pi Imager, click "Choose OS", select "Use custom", and browse
to the AdvanceBERRY `.img` file. Then click "Choose Storage" and select your
microSD card. Click "Next" to begin writing the image. When asked about custom
settings, click "No".

Once the write is complete, insert the microSD card into your Raspberry Pi,
connect it to your TV via HDMI, power it on, and have fun!


First Start
===========

AdvanceBERRY boots directly into the launcher frontend, with animated previews
of each game.

If a gamepad is connected, you can press 'A' or 'X' to start a game, 'B' to
show help, or 'Y' to launch a clone version of the game.

If no gamepad is detected, a pairing screen appears and will display the
controller once it connects.

For Bluetooth gamepads, make sure to press the pairing button the first time
you use it. On later boots, just turn it on.

To shut down, press the 'SELECT' button and choose 'SHUTDOWN'.

Enjoy the simplicity of AdvanceBERRY!


Customization
=============

AdvanceBERRY works perfectly without customization, but offers several
optional settings for those who want them.

You can choose to enable 'mature' games, which are disabled by default to keep
the system family-friendly.

Some games are also excluded by default because they haven’t aged well. If you
disagree with those choices, you can include them too.

To access the frontend settings, connect a keyboard and press the SCROLL LOCK
key. This unlocks the interface. Then press the TILDE (~) key (just below ESC)
to open the menu.

To enable mature games, go to 'Listing/Types' and press SPACE to toggle them.

To include excluded games, go to 'Listing/Groups', press SPACE to enable the
'Bad' group, then use F9 to update the rating of individual games so they
appear in the list.

To save changes, go to 'Settings/Save all settings'.


FAQ
===

* Which controllers are supported?  
  AdvanceBERRY uses RetroArch’s joypad configuration system. You can find the
  list of supported controllers here:  
  https://github.com/libretro/retroarch-joypad-autoconfig/tree/master/udev

* Which controller is recommended?  
  I personally use the 8BitDo SN30 Pro Bluetooth controller, but that’s just a
  preference. Use whatever controller you’re most comfortable with.

* Which microSD card is required?  
  A 32 GB microSD card is the minimum required. Larger cards work fine, but
  don’t provide any real advantage. A faster card can improve boot and loading
  times, but won’t affect in-game performance.

* Can I use a different tool to write the `.img` file to the microSD?  
  Yes, any tool that can write a disk image will work. For example, on Linux
  you can use the `dd` command—just make sure to choose the correct device.

* Is a network connection required?  
  No. AdvanceBERRY doesn’t require or use any network connection. Wired
  networking is enabled in case it's needed, but no services like SSH are
  available for remote access.

* My Bluetooth joypad doesn’t connect or pair. How do I fix it?  
  If no joypad is detected at startup, AdvanceBERRY will show a countdown.
  When the countdown ends, the Bluetooth state is reset, allowing new
  pairings.

  This is helpful if your controller was previously paired with AdvanceBERRY
  but later connected to another device. In that case, AdvanceBERRY still
  sees it as paired, but the controller won’t reconnect until re-paired.

